Which are all the plugins u have integrated with Jenkins ( which are the plugins uhave installed in Jenkins)
1. parameterized plugin: It is used to pass parameters to Jenkins jobs. I configure parameterized plugin for deployment job. Deployment job asks 2 parameters one is server name and another one is artifact name. These values will be passed to deployment script inside Jenkins job.
2. publish over CIFS: used to copy files from Linux to windows.
3. git plugin: Allows Jenkins to pull code from Git repositories (GitHub, GitLab, Bitbucket, etc.).
4. Pipeline Plugin (Declarative + Scripted Pipeline): Enables Jenkinsfile-based CI/CD pipelines using code (Jenkins as code).
5. Blue Ocean Plugin: Provides a modern UI for pipelines with better visualization of stages.
6. SonarQube: The SonarQube Scanner for Jenkins Plugin integrates Jenkins with SonarQube so Jenkins can perform code quality analysis as part of the CI/CD pipeline.
7. Artifactory plugin: The JFrog Artifactory Plugin integrates Jenkins with JFrog Artifactory, allowing Jenkins to upload, download, store, track, and promote build artifacts.
8. JUnit Plugin (Built-in): Used to publish test reports when Selenium tests run with JUnit/TestNG.
9. upstream and downstream

How do you take Jenkins backup
we need to take backup of /var/lib/jenkins. we take jenkins backup and store it in a separate s3 bucket in aws. we have written a python / shell script to take backup automatically and scheduled jenkins job using crontab.

how do you copy jobs from one jenkins server to another jenkins erver.
copy the jobs under /var/lib/jenkins to another jenkins in same path.

can we make slave actins as its own master.
No

how will jenkins distribute load to slave machine.
sol: Based on
1. capacity is more
2. number of jobs passed.

Jenkinsfile (Jenkins pipeline): Jenkinsfile is where we put all our job configuration to achieve multiple instance execution in a single pipeline job. Jenkinsfile is written using groovy script.

There are two types of jenkins based groovy scripting.
1. declarative scripting
2. scripted scripting


agents: agent block is used to define which jobs to run in which server. we can define 4 types of agents
1. any
2. none
3. label
4. docker

any: agent any is always defined at the pipeline level. it is used to run jobs on any available server based on load.
syntax: agent any

none. if user define agent as none at the pipeline level then it is mandatory to define agent on each and every stage.
		agent none

label: it is used to run jobs on specific server
	agent { label 'slave1' }

docker: it is used to run jobs inside the docker container.
syntax: agent {
        docker { image 'image_name' }
    }
ex:
agent {
        docker { image 'node:24.11.1-alpine3.22' }
    }

How to define each stage in different slave
sol: by defining agent none at pipeline level and agent label at stage level
